### Resource Surveillance & Integration Engine (`surveilr`) for Critical Systems

Organizations in industries such as finance, energy, healthcare,
pharmaceuticals, aerospace, and cybersecurity must aggregate data from multiple
sources to navigate complex evidence-driven decision-making processes and meet
stringent regulatory compliance requirements.

The **Resource Surveillance & Integration Engine**&mdash;more conveniently
referred to as **`surveilr`** (pronounced "_surveiler_")&mdash; is designed to
address modern challenges by providing a centralized platform for evidence
surveillance and data aggregation, enabling organizations to securely collect,
analyze and audit critical evidentiary data from across their systems.

**`surveilr`** is an advanced platform designed to streamline data integration
across your organization, with a special focus on **evidence** data &mdash;
proving whether policies are being followed or whether systems are meeting key
standards. Whether youâ€™re dealing with regulatory requirements, compliance
audits, or patient data privacy, **`surveilr`** makes the complex task of
managing machine attestation data much easier.

ðŸ’¬
[Ask questions about `surveilr` via ChatGPT](https://chatgpt.com/g/g-ra0bKz5rY-surveilr-assistant).

### How `surveilr` Works

- **Stateful Data Integration**: Unlike simple data transfer tools, `surveilr`
  doesnâ€™t just move information between systems. It stores and organizes data in
  a way that is standardized, making it easy to query and manage.

- **Local-First, Edge-Based**: `surveilr` processes data as close as possible to
  where it is collectedâ€”on local devices, laptops, or edge systems. This reduces
  the need for unnecessary data transfers, keeping sensitive data secure by
  handling it locally before sending it to a central location.

- **SQL-Centric**: `surveilr` uses the power of SQL, a universal database
  language, to ensure your data can be accessed, searched, and analyzed
  efficiently.

### Why Does This Matter?

For industries like **regulatory science**, **cybersecurity**, and
**healthcare**, **`surveilr`** ensures that critical dataâ€”whether it's
regulatory reports, cybersecurity logs, or patient recordsâ€”can be managed safely
and efficiently. It supports **secure data transmission** and guarantees that
sensitive information is anonymized or de-identified when needed, helping your
organization remain compliant with **HIPAA** and other data protection
standards.

### Key Benefits

- **Streamlined Compliance**: `surveilr` ensures that all compliance evidence is
  collected, organized, and ready for audit, saving time and reducing human
  error.

- **Data Security**: `surveilr`â€™s edge-based approach ensures data stays secure
  by limiting unnecessary movement of sensitive information. Only whatâ€™s needed
  is transferred to central servers, reducing exposure and risks.

- **Interoperability**: `surveilr` integrates seamlessly with your existing
  systems, whether itâ€™s email, databases, or software like GitHub or Jira,
  ensuring a smooth exchange of information across platforms.

- **Scalability**: Whether you're handling a small team or a large enterprise,
  `surveilr`â€™s flexible architecture adapts to your needs, providing a secure,
  efficient solution that grows with your organization.

### Why `surveilr` is So Widely Applicable

One of the key reasons **`surveilr`** is so widely applicable across industries
is because itâ€™s a **complete SQL-based data aggregation and orchestration
platform**. At its core is an opinionated, superbly designed **universal
relational database schema** that can handle content from almost any source.
This powerful schema, coupled with **`surveilr`â€™s content assembler**, allows it
to support not only industry-neutral formats like:

- **Text**
- **JSON**
- **XML**
- **Excel**
- **Parquet**
- **CSV**

but also industry-specific formats such as:

- **X.12 (Electronic Data Interchange)**
- **HL7 v2 (Healthcare Messaging Standard)**
- **FHIR (Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources)**

In todayâ€™s digital landscape, most of the data that businesses rely on to make
decisions is scattered across a multitude of systems. Data might be locked away
in **emails**, **product lifecycle management (PLM) systems** such as GitHub,
GitLab, Jira, or Asana, or **project management systems** like Trello,
Monday.com, and others. Similarly, **systems of record** such as **Customer
Relationship Management (CRM) systems** (like Salesforce or HubSpot),
**Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) systems** (like SAP or Oracle), and
**Electronic Health Records (EHRs)** in the healthcare industry house vital
information thatâ€™s critical for decision making.

However, this data is not always readily accessible in one place. Pulling
together information from these siloed systems to get a unified view for
decision making is an enormous challenge for most organizations. **`surveilr`**
steps in to bridge this gap by acting as a **universal data aggregator**,
capable of pulling data from multiple, disparate sources and organizing it in a
way that is **instantly queryable**.

A single **edge-based binary** of `surveilr` can securely pull data from these
sourcesâ€”be it emails, PLM systems, CRMs, ERPs, or specialized industry
formatsâ€”and prepare it for **uniform querying** using SQL-friendly tools.
Whether you are trying to aggregate evidence from multiple **SaaS platforms**,
gather information from **log files**, or collate data from a variety of
**knowledgebases** and **local files**, `surveilr` makes it possible to bring
all that information into a cohesive, structured format.

This capability is particularly valuable because it **eliminates the need for
complex data migrations** or manual data extraction efforts, which are often
costly and time-consuming. By supporting both **local-first** processing and
**cloud-based deployments**, `surveilr` provides the flexibility to process
sensitive data behind firewalls, anonymize or clean it if necessary, and then
share or store it securely. The ability to consolidate **human-generated** and
**machine-generated** evidence into a single **uniform format** makes audits,
compliance checks, and decision-making far easier and more effective.

By using `surveilr` as a **universal data aggregator**, businesses can
confidently prepare and share data across internal and external systems with the
peace of mind that it has been properly processed, anonymized, and secured.

### `surveilr` for Vendor Assessment and Corporate Compliance

In industries where supply chain partners are involvedâ€”such as healthcare,
energy, and cybersecurityâ€”vendors must often evaluate and police each otherâ€™s
policy adherence. **`surveilr`** enables companies to do just that in a secure
and efficient way.

With **`surveilr`**, you can collect **policy adherence evidence** directly from
systems behind corporate firewalls. Sensitive data can be anonymized or removed
entirely, allowing organizations to share just the evidence required to prove
compliance without exposing proprietary or personal information. This is
particularly valuable in **vendor assessments**, where transparency is
essential, but security and privacy cannot be compromised.

Corporate compliance leaders and cybersecurity officers can also use
**`surveilr`** to gather data anonymously or with attribution, depending on the
need. Whether through automated processes or manual reviews, `surveilr` allows
organizations to enforce or audit policy adherence by capturing activities
across systems and verifying whether individuals or teams are following
established procedures. By pulling data from emails, lifecycle tools like
GitHub, SaaS platforms, or logs, **`surveilr`** provides a clear picture of
whether key standards are being met.

#### Quality Management for Safety-Critical Industries

Industries such as **healthcare**, **energy**, **aviation**, and other
safety-critical sectors require stringent **quality management** protocols to
ensure the safety of their operations. In these environments, failure to adhere
to quality protocols can have serious consequences.

**`surveilr`** is a powerful tool for quality management organizations tasked
with collecting and auditing data to ensure that staff are following proper
protocols. By aggregating data from disparate systems and auditing logs or
records, `surveilr` makes it easier to verify that proper safety and quality
processes are in place. Whether for internal audits, external regulatory
reviews, or continuous quality improvement, `surveilr` helps ensure that
critical operations adhere to the highest standards.

### `surveilr` Enables Easier Evidence-Based Decision Making

**Evidence-based decision making** is the process of using data and factual
evidence to guide important business decisions, ensuring that choices are
grounded in reality rather than intuition or incomplete information. While this
approach is critical for success, executives often struggle with gathering
enough reliable evidence to make sound decisions. According to **Harvard
Business Review**, many executives lack the data they need for decision making,
which is often scattered across systems, incomplete, or difficult to access
[[HBR, 2020](https://hbr.org/2020/01/how-executives-can-make-better-decisions)].

The challenges of evidence-based decision making are exacerbated by the lack of
a unified approach to collecting **human-generated** and **machine-generated**
evidence. Most businesses today rely on a patchwork of systems that store data
in different formats, with no single platform capable of pulling everything
together into a cohesive, queryable format. This is where **`surveilr`** stands
out.

Unlike other tools that handle data exchanges but leave the data unorganized,
`surveilr` not only gathers data from multiple sources but also **organizes it
into a unified format** that is instantly queryable. This means that the
evidence collectedâ€”whether it's from emails, databases, SaaS tools, log files,
or industry-specific formats like HL7 or FHIRâ€”can be queried and analyzed with
ease using **SQL-friendly tools**. For business analysts and executives, this
makes it much easier to extract insights, run reports, and make informed
decisions based on the evidence at hand.

Moreover, `surveilr` can act as a complete **evidence warehouse**. It securely
aggregates data behind firewalls, cleans and anonymizes it where necessary, and
allows for the **local storage of evidence** on devices as small as laptops. At
the same time, it can scale to support cloud-based evidence repositories,
ensuring secure, queryable access to data across the organization.

Other evidence-gathering tools on the market often fail to deliver this level of
organization. They may facilitate the transfer of data between systems but do
not prepare the data in a structured, **uniformly queryable format**.
**`surveilr`**, on the other hand, is designed specifically to handle this
challenge, ensuring that evidence-based decision making becomes a smoother, more
efficient process.

In today's fast-paced business environment, where executives need access to
trustworthy data to make informed decisions, **`surveilr`** delivers the
unified, secure, and queryable platform that makes evidence-based decision
making possible.

### Unlimited Integration Possibilities with Capturable Executables (CEs)

Traditional integration tools like **Enterprise Service Buses (ESBs)**, **API
connectors**, and services like **Zapier** are designed to connect external
systems to each other. They allow data to flow between various platforms,
enabling communication across applications. While these tools are highly
effective at linking systems together, they typically just **move data** from
one system to another without retaining a centralized, **queryable state**. This
is where **Capturable Executables (CEs)** in **`surveilr`** offer a unique
advantage.

**Capturable Executables (CEs)** are focused not just on **connecting systems**
but on **ingesting data** from arbitrary sources, in almost any format, using
**any connector technology or technique**. Unlike typical ESBs or API connectors
that simply transfer data between systems, CEs capture this data and store it in
**`surveilr`'s** stateful **uniform resource** database, where it becomes
**queryable**. This means that instead of simply linking systems, **`surveilr`**
transforms the data into an organized, **evidence-based resource** that can be
used for audits, reports, and decision-making.

**Capturable Executables (CEs)** are custom scripts that can be written in **any
programming language** to connect to various systems, extract or generate data,
and fully integrate that data into **`surveilr`â€™s** **opinionated universal
database schema**. These scripts allow businesses to customize their integration
processes, ensuring that no matter what system or format the data comes from, it
can be captured, stored, and made available for analysis.

When **`surveilr`** performs an **ingest command**, it typically looks for
files, extracts their content, and stores them as records in a **uniform
resource** table. However, sometimes the data doesnâ€™t already exist in a static
fileâ€”it needs to be **generated**. Thatâ€™s where **CEs** become invaluable. CEs
allow businesses to execute scripts, gather data in real time, and capture the
output for storage in **`surveilr`**.

At the core of **CEs** is the idea that scriptsâ€”whether they're simple shell
scripts or complex programsâ€”can be executed by **`surveilr`**, and their
**output** can be captured and treated as part of the evidence warehouse. The
process works like this:

- **Executing Custom Scripts**: When a specific type of file is encountered (for
  example, `abc.surveilr.sh`), **`surveilr`** can execute the script using a
  designated **Capturable Executable (CE)**. The script is run safely, and its
  output (whether JSON, SQL, or other formats) is captured.

- **Storing the Output**: Once the script has run, the output from **STDOUT**
  and any potential error messages from **STDERR** are stored directly into
  **`surveilr`â€™s uniform resource table**. This allows the generated data to
  become part of the evidence warehouse, where it can be queried, audited, and
  analyzed alongside data from other sources.

- **Processing Instructions (PIs)**: Customization is achieved through
  **Processing Instructions (PIs)** embedded in filenames or passed as arguments
  during execution. For example, a script called `myfile.surveilr-SQL.sh` would
  indicate that the output is **SQL** and should be executed as a **batch SQL
  transaction** within the `surveilr` database.

CEs are a powerful tool because they provide **unlimited integration
possibilities**. Unlike traditional systems that rely on rigid, predefined
connectors, CEs allow businesses to:

- **Ingest from any system**: Whether itâ€™s a legacy application, a modern API,
  or an internal system that doesnâ€™t have a typical connector, a custom CE
  script can be written to extract or generate data and pass it into
  **`surveilr`**.

- **Generate and capture data dynamically**: Not all data comes from static
  files. Sometimes, data needs to be generated in real-timeâ€”whether itâ€™s pulling
  information from a database, running a diagnostic tool, or creating complex
  batch files. CEs enable this dynamic data generation.

- **Store output in a standardized format**: No matter what the output of the CE
  script isâ€”JSON, SQL, text, or other formatsâ€”**`surveilr`** can capture and
  store it in a **uniform resource table**, making the data easily accessible
  and queryable for business analysts.

The ability to execute scripts and capture their output makes **`surveilr`** a
unique tool for **building an evidence warehouse**. Instead of relying solely on
existing data, CEs allow businesses to **pull in data from custom sources** or
generate new data on the fly. This means that **`surveilr`** can act in a
similar way to API connectors, ESBs, and other integration engines, but with the
added benefit of **fully integrating the data** into a **stateful**,
**queryable** evidence warehouse.

**Capturable Executables (CEs)** empower organizations to create a flexible,
highly customized integration process that not only gathers data but also stores
it in a meaningful, standardized format. With CEs, businesses can break free
from the limitations of traditional connectors and integration tools, giving
them the power to capture, process, and store data from virtually any source,
securely and efficiently.

### How does `surveilr` differ from ESBs, API Connectors, and other Integration Tools?

- **Evidence Warehouse, Not Just Data Integration**: `surveilr` is designed
  specifically to function as an evidence warehouse, not merely a data connector
  or integration tool. While traditional enterprise service buses and
  integration engines primarily focus on moving data from one system to another,
  `surveilr` aggregates data and stores it in a stateful, centralized repository
  that is instantly queryable. This is critical for evidence-based decision
  making because data is not only collected but organized for audits, analysis,
  and reporting.

- **Statefulness vs. Stateless Integration**: Most integration platforms, ESBs,
  and API connectors are stateless, meaning they pass data through without
  storing it or maintaining its context. `surveilr` is stateful, meaning that it
  retains the history, context, and provenance of the data it collects. This
  statefulness is crucial for maintaining a comprehensive audit trail, allowing
  businesses to prove policy adherence, regulatory compliance, and conduct
  retrospective analysis on historical data for audits or investigations.

- **Capturable Executables (CEs) for Unlimited Integration**: A key
  differentiator of `surveilr` is its **Capturable Executables (CEs)**. Unlike
  traditional connectors that require predefined APIs or static integrations,
  CEs allow businesses to **ingest data from any system**, using custom scripts
  in any language. CEs provide unparalleled flexibility to connect to
  **arbitrary sources** and generate data dynamically, which is then stored in
  the **uniform resource** database. CEs give `surveilr` the power to act
  similarly to API connectors or ESBs but with the added capability of making
  the ingested data instantly queryable.

- **Opinionated, Universal Database Schema**: `surveilr` features an opinionated
  and meticulously designed universal database schema that is optimized for
  storing diverse data types from multiple sources in a uniform, queryable
  format. This **uniform resource definition** allows otherwise
  difficult-to-reach dataâ€”like logs, documents, system records, or emailsâ€”to be
  accessed in a consistent and predictable way using **SQL-friendly tools**.
  Competing platforms often dump data in silos or fragmented formats, requiring
  significant transformation before analysis can begin.

- **Uniform Resource Structure**: `surveilr` employs a uniform resource
  definition that allows data from different sources (emails, PLM systems like
  GitHub, ERP systems, CRMs, EHRs, etc.) to be mapped to a common structure.
  This eliminates the need for extensive manual mapping and transformation,
  making it easier for business analysts to run queries across data that would
  normally be disparate and siloed. Other systems typically focus on connecting
  APIs but donâ€™t provide a uniform schema for querying data once itâ€™s been
  integrated.

- **Designed for Evidence-Based Decision Making**: While many integration
  platforms focus on data transfer, `surveilr` is purpose-built for
  **evidence-based decision making**. Its stateful data aggregation ensures that
  **every action, transaction, or policy decision** is backed by concrete
  evidence stored in a unified format. Traditional ESBs and API connectors are
  not designed to serve this specific use caseâ€”they may facilitate data
  exchange, but they donâ€™t make it easy to query and analyze data for
  compliance, audit, or decision-making purposes.

- **Multi-Format Support with Industry-Specific Flexibility**: `surveilr`
  supports both **industry-neutral formats** (JSON, CSV, XML, Excel, Parquet)
  and **industry-specific formats** like **X.12 (EDI)**, **HL7 v2**, and
  **FHIR**. Competing systems are often restricted to a narrow set of formats or
  require complex configuration to handle industry-specific data. `surveilr` is
  **pre-configured** to handle a wide variety of formats natively, making it
  more versatile for industries like healthcare, finance, and manufacturing.

- **Local-First, Edge-Based Processing**: Unlike traditional integration systems
  that depend on centralized processing, `surveilr` is built for **local-first,
  edge-based data processing**. This ensures that data can be processed,
  cleaned, and anonymized **locally**, before it is transmitted to a central
  location. This is a critical differentiator for industries that need to comply
  with **data sovereignty** and **privacy regulations** (such as HIPAA), and for
  those needing to **minimize exposure of sensitive data**.

- **Security and Privacy-First Design**: `surveilr` is engineered with security
  and privacy in mind. It supports **anonymization and de-identification** of
  sensitive data before it leaves the local environment, reducing the risk of
  data breaches or accidental exposure. Competing tools may not offer this level
  of **granular privacy controls**, often leaving data exposed or requiring
  additional tools to handle anonymization, adding complexity.

- **End-to-End Auditability and Traceability**: The **stateful nature** of
  **`surveilr`** allows for **end-to-end traceability** of data, meaning that
  every piece of information ingested can be **audited from source to
  destination**. This is particularly important in industries with heavy
  regulatory burdens (e.g., finance, healthcare, cybersecurity), where being
  able to prove **who accessed what data, when, and why** is critical.
  Traditional systems focus on moving data from point A to point B but typically
  do not offer **comprehensive auditability** across all integrated systems.

- **Evidence Aggregation Across Multiple Systems**: In most enterprises,
  business data is scattered across numerous systems: **emails**, **CRM
  systems** (Salesforce, HubSpot), **ERP systems** (SAP, Oracle), **PLM
  systems** (GitHub, GitLab, Jira), **project management tools** (Asana,
  Monday.com), and **EHRs** in healthcare. `surveilr` can **aggregate data from
  all of these systems**, pulling them together into a single **uniformly
  queryable repository**. Competing tools may be able to connect to some of
  these systems, but they **rarely provide a unified query interface** that
  allows for seamless analysis across such a diverse array of sources.

- **No Data Silos**: Unlike traditional ESBs and integration platforms, which
  may create **data silos** by only moving data between systems, `surveilr`
  ensures that **all integrated data** is aggregated in a single repository with
  a **uniform schema**. This prevents the creation of isolated datasets that are
  difficult to analyze holistically, making it easier for executives and
  business analysts to **get a complete picture** of their operations.

- **Business Analyst-Friendly**: While many integration tools require
  significant technical expertise to set up and use, `surveilr` is designed to
  be **business analyst-friendly**. Its **SQL-centric architecture** allows
  non-technical users to **query data** without needing specialized knowledge of
  the underlying systems. Most competing platforms require complex data
  transformation and technical configuration before data can be queried,
  creating a barrier to access for business users.

- **Seamless Integration with SQL-Friendly Tools**: `surveilr` is fully
  compatible with **SQL-friendly analysis and reporting tools** (like PowerBI,
  Tableau, and Looker), making it easy to extract insights from the integrated
  data. Traditional integration platforms may not focus on making data
  **instantly accessible** for business analysis, often requiring extensive
  post-processing before data can be queried. With `surveilr`, data is
  immediately **queryable** as soon as itâ€™s ingested.

- **Self-Contained and Lightweight**: Unlike many large, complex ESBs that
  require **extensive infrastructure** and heavy configuration, **`surveilr`**
  is a **lightweight, self-contained binary** that can run **on any device**
  (from servers to laptops). This portability allows it to be deployed at the
  **edge** of networks, ensuring that **local-first processing** is possible
  even in **resource-constrained environments**.

- **Instantly Actionable Data**: With **`surveilr`**, the data is **instantly
  actionable** as it is transformed into a **uniform resource format** upon
  ingestion. This is critical for organizations that need to make real-time
  decisions based on incoming data. Other integration tools may require
  extensive post-processing or manual intervention before data can be utilized,
  slowing down the decision-making process.

- **Seamless Handling of Both Structured and Unstructured Data**: While many
  integration tools struggle with **unstructured data** (e.g., emails,
  documents, logs), **`surveilr`** is built to handle **both structured and
  unstructured data formats** seamlessly. This ensures that all relevant
  informationâ€”whether it's in a structured CRM system or an unstructured
  emailâ€”can be integrated into the **same evidence repository** for analysis.

- **Designed for Complex, Mission-Critical Use Cases**: **`surveilr`** is
  specifically engineered to handle **complex, mission-critical use cases** in
  industries such as healthcare, energy, cybersecurity, and finance. Its ability
  to handle **multiple formats, stringent compliance requirements, and the need
  for real-time evidence gathering** sets it apart from other systems, which may
  not be built with the same level of **robustness or flexibility**.
